Add documentation for a use case: "How To Pass a Physical NIC Into a Kata Container" (#619)
kata-containers/documentation: use-cases/NIC-passthrough-and-Kata.md

# How To Pass a Physical NIC Into a Kata Container

* [Before you start (Restrictions, Requirements and Assumptions)](#before-you-start-restrictions-requirements-and-assumptions)
* [Pass a physical NIC into a Kata Container](#Pass-a-physical-NIC-into-a-Kata-Container)
  * [Part 1 – The Host](#part-1--the-host)
  * [Part 2 – The Container](#part-2--the-container)
* [Test Your Setup](#Test-Your-Setup)

![](./images/NIC%20passthrough%20Diagram.png)

> In this guide we walk through the process of passing a physical NIC into Kata Containers. The "usual" way that a Kata Container is wired for communication is through a bridge and virtual NIC, as can be seen in the image above (marked as default).

Reviewer: Nit: It would help if you folded long lines somewhere between 70-80 characters throughout the document. That makes diffs easier to read.

> In this guide we walk through the process of passing a physical NIC into a KC (Kata Container). The "usual" way that a KC is wired for communication is through a series of bridges and virtual NICs as can be seen in the Image above (marked as default). 

Reviewer 2: We don't really use the abbreviation KC, so would avoid it here.

Reviewer 3: Done.

> In this guide we walk through the process of passing a physical NIC into a KC (Kata Container). The "usual" way that a KC is wired for communication is through a series of bridges and virtual NICs as can be seen in the Image above (marked as default). 

Reviewer 2: /Image/image/
I would rewrite it as a "through a bridge and virtual NIC" and drop the `a series..`

Reviewer 3: Done.

> For some use cases, the container demands a direct link to the physical port of the host device, for example in a situation were the container is required to route high BW traffic without having support for acceleration such as SR-IOV.

Reviewer: s/BW/bandwidth/ ?

## Before you start (Restrictions, Requirements and Assumptions)  

> The method described in this guide relays on your system [supporting  IOMMU.]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Input–output_memory_management_unit#Published_specifications) before you start, make sure that your system has this attribute. If it does not, you should look for a different solution then the one presented here. 

Reviewer 2: Should this be "relies" here?
/before/Before/

Reviewer 3: Done.

If you are uncertain about your system’s support, the first two steps in [Part 1 – The Host](#part-1--the-host) should help you figure this out. 

 This guide was tested using *Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU D-1548 @ 2.00GHz* and [support for VT-d](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_virtualization#Intel-VT-d), Operated by Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS. The general steps proposed is this guide should match other hardware and OS with some modifications.

This guide’s starting point is a system with an installed and working Docker and Kata Containers.

If that is not the case for you:

- [How to install Kata Containers](https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/tree/master/install)

- [How to install Docker](https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/blob/master/install/docker/ubuntu-docker-install.md) 

## Pass a physical NIC into a Kata Container 

### Part 1 – The Host

> **Note:** All next commands are run as a super-user. Use `$ sudo -i` to become a super-user.

Reviewer: I'd remove the 2nd sentence:

```suggestion
**Note:** All the following commands are run as the super-user.
```

#### Configure system to load with IOMMU support.

   Edit grub file ( `/etc/default/grub` )

```bash
$ sudo vi /etc/default/grub
```

And add ` intel_iommu=on iommu=pt` To the **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX** line 

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=" … quiet intel_iommu=on iommu=pt"

> If using UEFI: (like I do) 

Reviewer: Please remove "like I do".

```bash
$ sudo grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/efi/EFI/ubuntu/grub.cfg
```

Else (not using UEFI):

```bash
$ sudo grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg
```

#### Test that the system loads with IOMMU:

```bash
$ sudo dmesg | grep -ie iommu
```

#### Enable the *hotplug_vfio_on_root_bus* configuration in the `kata configuration.toml` file:

```bash
$ sudo vi /usr/share/defaults/kata-containers/configuration.toml
```
a. Set hotplug_vfio_on_root_bus = true

b. Make sure you are using the PC machine type by verifying machine_type = "pc"

> #### Install *lshw* and *pciutils* (Ubuntu)

Reviewer: I would consider making the title more generic (easier to read and also won't need to be updated if we later find we need to add more tools)

> #### Install required tools for Ubuntu

```bash

> $ sudo apt install lshw pciutils

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ sudo apt install -y lshw pciutils
```

```

#### Find PCI address for the interface you wish to pass to the container and place it in a variable

> Say I want to pass **enp0s20f1** to the container (see what interfaces you have by running `$ ip link` ). 

Reviewer: I'd consider making the adding a sentce at the start of this section regarding `ip link`:

> To list available interfaces, run:
> 
> ```sh
> $ ip list
> ```
>
> Assuming you want to pass the network interface `enp0s20f1` to the container, ...

Get address: 

```bash
$ NIC=<interface>
```
For example: 
```bash
$ NIC=enp0s20f1
```
Place in BDF:
```bash
$ BDF=$(sudo lshw -class network -businfo -numeric | grep ${NIC} | awk '{print $1;}' | cut -d@ -f2)
```
Test BDF:
```bash
$ echo $BDF
```

```
Expected results (something like):

0000:00:14.1
```

#### Load *vfio-pci*  kernel module

```bash
$ sudo modprobe -i vfio-pci
```
Test that the module loaded correctly: 

```bash
$ sudo lsmod | grep vfio
```

#### Unbind the Interface from its current driver. 

```bash
$ sudo echo $BDF | sudo tee /sys/bus/pci/devices/$BDF/driver/unbind
```

#### Find vendor & device ID

```bash
$ sudo lspci -n -s $BDF
```

```

> Expected results (something like):

Reviewer: This line shouldn't be inside the ` ``` ` (I'd put it above it).

00:14.1 0200: 8086:1f40 (rev 03)
```

#### Bind the device to vfio-pci using the result of the previous step.

```bash
$ sudo echo 8086 1f40 | sudo tee /sys/bus/pci/drivers/vfio-pci/new_id
```

> > **Note:** The ` xxxx xxxx ` format is of the correct form and not a mistake.

Reviewer: You could make this clearer by single quoting the value maybe:

```sh
$ sudo echo '8086 1f40' | ...
```

#### Check what the new device name is, now under vfio

```bash
$ sudo ls /dev/vfio
```
```
Expected results (something like):

 39  vfio
```

> **Note:** The requested outcome here is the newly created “39”.

#### All set here. Time to move to the Container’s side of the deal.

### Part 2 – The Container

#### Create the container you wish to pass the NIC into

```bash

> docker run -it --runtime=kata-runtime --name <choose a name> --device /dev/vfio/<device name from previous step> -v /dev:/dev <image> <command>

Reviewer: Please add a `$ ` to the start of all commands (here and below). Also, we tend to document running docker using `sudo`.

```suggestion
$ sudo docker run -it --runtime=kata-runtime --name <choose a name> --device /dev/vfio/<device name from previous step> -v /dev:/dev <image> <command>
```

```
   For example:

```bash
docker run -it --runtime=kata-runtime --name vfio_con --device /dev/vfio/39 -v /dev:/dev ubuntu bash
```
If you aren’t sure what just happened back there, here’s a breakdown of the command:
- `docker run` - creates and runs the container. 
- ` -it ` - docker command flags for “interactive” and “tty”.
- ` --runtime=kata-runtime ` - tells docker to run the container as a Kata Container (if you set kata-runtime as the default runtime, this option is redundant).
- ` --name vfio_con ` – name the container. It can be any name you choose. 
- ` --device /dev/vfio/39 ` – this one is the important part. With this command, you tell docker to pass the NIC to the container. 

> - `-v /dev:/dev `– here you tell docker to map the devices folder of the host to the devices folder of the container.

Reviewer: I'd consider removing most of this explanation, keeping only details of `--device` and `-v`.

- ` ubuntu `– choose the container image you want to run. 
- ` bash ` - the command you what the container to run. 

 

#### Find forwarded device
Update and install pciutils (Ubuntu)

```bash

> $ sudo apt update ; apt install pciutils

Reviewer: Haven't we dont this already above?

```

List devices:
```bash
$ sudo lspci –nn -D
```

> **Note:** The [XXXX:XXXX] address you are looking for is the same one you used in the previous steps.

#### Bind the passed device with a driver in the container.

> / TODO

Reviewer 2: Are you planning to update these?

Reviewer 3: No, Please see: [603105747](https://github.com/kata-containers/runtime/issues/1876#issuecomment-603105747). Thanks

# How To Pass a Physical NIC Into a Kata Container

> ![](https://github.com/Yuval-Ai/documentation/blob/doc-create-NIC-passthrough-and-Kata/use-cases/images/NIC%20passthrough%20Diagram.png)

Reviewer 4: This URL points to a personal repository, could you update/change it for the one that will be here.

Reviewer 5: and you can make it a relative link - just use a ./dir/file.jpg etc. - that should work, and is then more portable etc.

fyi, I use [grip](https://github.com/joeyespo/grip) locally to preview docs I am working on before pushing - helps my turnaround time.

> 

Reviewer 5: I wonder if the kata 'default' diagram should be more like the `tc` based one over at https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/blob/master/design/architecture.md#networking - possibly to show we default to `tc` in the VM and not a virtual nic per-se any more, I think? /cc @amshinde

In this guide we walk through the process of passing a physical NIC into a KC (Kata Container). The "usual" way that a KC is wired for communication is through a series of bridges and virtual NICs as can be seen in the Image above (marked as default). 

For some use cases, the container demands a direct link to the physical port of the host device, for example in a situation were the container is required to route high BW traffic without having support for acceleration such as SR-IOV.

#### In this guide:

> * [Before you start (Restrictions, Requirements and Assumptions)](#before-you-start-restrictions-requirements-and-assumptions)

Reviewer 5: I think we normally just place this at the top of the document as a TOC in Kata docs. Have a look at the [kata documentation guide](https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/blob/master/Documentation-Requirements.md) if you have not already - there are probably some other conventions we use that will apply to the rest of the document.

Maybe also see something like the existing [GPU guide](https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/blob/master/use-cases/Intel-GPU-passthrough-and-Kata.md) for an example of style and flow.

* [Pass a physical NIC into a Kata Container](#Pass-a-physical-NIC-into-a-Kata-Container)
  * [Part 1 – The Host](#part-1--the-host)
  * [Part 2 – The Container](#part-2--the-container)
* [Test Your Setup](#Test-Your-Setup)

## Before you start (Restrictions, Requirements and Assumptions)  

The method described in this guide relays on your system [supporting  IOMMU.]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Input–output_memory_management_unit#Published_specifications) before you start, make sure that your system has this attribute. If it does not, you should look for a different solution then the one presented here. 

> If you are uncertain about your system’s support, the first two steps in [Part 1 – The Host](# Part-1-–-The-Host) should help you figure this out. 

Reviewer 5: hotlink is not resolving.

Reviewer: Yes, I think you need to remove the space between the `#` and `Part`.

>  In my setup, I used a server with *Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU D-1548 @ 2.00GHz* and [support for VT-d](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_virtualization#Intel-VT-d), Operated by Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS. The general steps proposed is this guide should match other hardware and OS with some changes.  

Reviewer: I would make this more generic - rather than "In my setup" you could say, "This guide was tested using ...".

> This guide’s starting point is a system with an installed and working *Docker* and *Kata Containers*.

Reviewer: I think you can remove the asterisks around these two terms.

If that is not the case for you:

> \-    [How to install Kata Containers]( https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/tree/master/install)

Reviewer: Please remove the backslashes in these two lines (and the spaces immediately after the open bracket symbols.

\-    [How to install Docker]( https://github.com/kata-containers/documentation/blob/master/install/docker/ubuntu-docker-install.md) 

## Pass a physical NIC into a Kata Container 

### Part 1 – The Host

> **Note:** all the next commands are run as a super-user. Use `$ sudo -i` to become a SU.

Reviewer: - Nit: s/all/All.
- s/SU/super-user/ (or `root`).

#### 1. Configure system to load with IOMMU support.

>    Edit grub file ( */etc/default/grub* )

Reviewer: All files need to be put in backticks, not asterisks.

```bash

> vi /etc/default/grub

Reviewer 5: this might want to be a `$ sudo update-grub` - is that more likely @jodh-intel ?

```

And add ` intel_iommu=on iommu=pt` To the **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX** line 

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=" … quiet intel_iommu=on iommu=pt"

If using UEFI: (like I do) 

/TODO – Change to Ubuntu

```bash

> grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/efi/EFI/centos/grub.cfg

Reviewer: All commands need to start with `$ `. But if a command needs `root`, the line should start with `$ sudo `.

```

Else (not using UEFI):

```bash
grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg
```

>  > Expected result

Reviewer: We tend not to should command output unless absolutely essential, so I would drop this. If output needs to be shown, it needs to be in backticks, not using the `>` quoting mechanism.

 >
 > Generating grub configuration file ...
 >
 > Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.10.0-957.el7.x86_64
 >
 > Found initrd image: /boot/initramfs-3.10.0-957.el7.x86_64.img
 >
 > Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-0-rescue-dcd5b66ae0534f86a683928888d3f7aa
 >
 > Found initrd image: /boot/initramfs-0-rescue-dcd5b66ae0534f86a683928888d3f7aa.img
 >
 > done

#### 2. Test that the system loads with IOMMU:

```bash

> dmesg | head 

Reviewer 5: I wonder if we can come up with a better `grep` expression to search for, or maybe even better if there is soemthing in /proc or /sys or cpuinfo etc... we should expand/elaborate this bit.

```bash
dmesg | grep -ie iommu
```

> Expected results
>
> ...
>
> [    1.081716] iommu: Adding device 0000:08:00.0 to group 33 
>
> [    1.081736] iommu: Adding device 0000:09:00.0 to group 34 
>
> [    1.081755] iommu: Adding device 0000:0a:00.0 to group 35 
>
> [    1.081776] iommu: Adding device 0000:0b:00.0 to group 36 
>
> [    1.081795] iommu: Adding device 0000:0c:00.0 to group 37 
>
> ...

#### 3. Enable the *hotplug_vfio_on_root_bus* configuration in the *kata configuration.toml* file:

```bash
vi /usr/share/defaults/kata-containers/configuration.toml
```
a. Set hotplug_vfio_on_root_bus = true

b. Make sure you are using the PC machine type by verifying machine_type = "pc"

#### 4. Install *lshw* and *pciutils* (Ubuntu)

```bash
apt install lshw pciutils
```

#### 5. Find PCI address for the interface you wish to pass to the container

Say I want to pass **enp0s20f1** to the container (see what interfaces you have by running `# ip link` ). 

Get address: 

```bash

> lshw -class network -businfo -numeric | grep enp0s20f1

Reviewer 5: we probably need to make this less system specific as well - should be possible I think

```

> Expected results 
> (something like)
> 
> pci@0000:00:14.1 enp0s20f1 network Ethernet Connection I354 1.0 GbE Backplane

#### 6. Insert the address into a variable

```bash

> BDF="0000:00:14.1"

Reviewer 4: This could be  assigned from the `lshw` output with the help of grep and awk and other parsing help something like :
`BDF=$(shw -class network -businfo -numeric | grep ${NIC} | awk 'print $1' | cut -d@ -f2)`

```

#### 7. Load *vfio-pci*  kernel module /TODO maybe set this to permanent? 

```bash
modprobe -i vfio-pci
```
Test that the module loaded correctly: 

```bash
lsmod | grep vfio
```

> Expected results
>
> vfio_pci                      41268     0
>
> vfio_iommu_type1  22300      0
>
> vfio                            32656      2     *vfio_iommu_type1*,vfio_pci
>
> irqbypass                 13503      2      kvm,vfio_pci

#### 8. Unbind the Interface from its current driver. 

```bash
echo $BDF | sudo tee /sys/bus/pci/devices/$BDF/driver/unbind
```

> Expected results
>
> 0000:00:14.1

#### 9.     Find vendor & device ID

```bash
lspci -n -s $BDF
```

> Expected results (something like)
>
> 00:14.1 0200: 8086:1f40 (rev 03)

#### 10.  Bind the device to vfio-pci using the result of the previous step.

```bash
echo 8086 1f40 | sudo tee /sys/bus/pci/drivers/vfio-pci/new_id
```

**Note:** the ` xxxx xxxx ` format is of the correct form and not a mistake.

> Expected results (something like)
> 
> 8086 1f40

> #### 11. Check what the new device name is, now under vfio

Reviewer 5: I've just noticed you have numbered the sections in the `##...` section headers - we don't normally do that, and it makes maintaining them harder - feel free to delete the number indexing.

```bash
ls /dev/vfio
```

> Expected results 
> (something like)
>
> 39  vfio

**Note:** that the requested outcome here is the newly created “39” 

#### All set here. Time to move to the Container’s side of the deal.

### Part 2 – The Container

#### 12.   Create the container you wish to pass the NIC into

> **Note:** once running the next command you will be automatically transferred into the container’s bash shell. 

Reviewer 5: We probably don't need this note - hopefully folks running Kata know how to run docker, and we can't explain all details to them ;-).

* To disconnect from it whilst keeping the container alive press *Ctrl+p, Ctrl+q.* 
* To create the container without been transferred into it add ‘*d*’ (for detached) to the command line flags (` # docker run -itd `)

```bash
docker run -it --runtime=kata-runtime --name <choose a name> --device /dev/vfio/<device name from previous step> -v /dev:/dev <image> <command>
```
   For example:

```bash
docker run -it --runtime=kata-runtime --name vfio_con --device /dev/vfio/39 -v /dev:/dev ubuntu bash
```

> If you aren’t sure what just happened back there, here’s a breakdown of the command:

Reviewer 5: Nice. I like the idea of the breakdown!
